There's one more thing I want to show you with these numbers systems in Java, when we are defining
variables or just creating constants of numbers with more than just decimal notation.
Let me show you what I mean, so we could create a byte variable, another byte and instead of assigning
it a value like whatever 45, we could use a different number system here, so I could specify a number
in hexadecimal and to do so, what I need to do is I just prepend the hexadecimal number with zero x.
So that tells Java that the number I'm about to type in is going to be in hexadecimal instead of decimal.
So now I can type something like one F, and that's perfectly valid.
That's that's a number.
OK.
I can also do the same.
And by the way, it doesn't have to be a byte.
It could be anything so I could use an end.
Another Oops.
Another.
And so I could do.
The same thing here as well.
Now I can also type in numbers in binary, and to do that, I do a zero B and then I can type whatever.
Oops.
Well, and that's not a two to two wouldn't work, right?
So there that's how you can enter a binary number, so binary or hexadecimal numbers.
So obviously, the places where you'd actually need or want to do this will be probably considerably
less for most programmers than just using decimal.
But there are a few really good reasons why you might want to do this.
I showed in one of the earlier programs let me see if I can bring that up, in fact.
Yeah.
So going back to the X lesson here.
OK, so if you recall down here where where we are creating our pattern for a Rig X, we can pass in
a second parameter which is turning on or off various additional capabilities of the regular expression
engine.
And so here I've turned on comments, but there are many other what are called flags that I could turn
on, and I turn those on by using a pipe symbol and then adding in more of these constants are these
flags so I can turn on the dot all, for example, the MI.
Let's make a little room here, and I could do another pipe and pass in another flag cannon.
Q Right.
So I could just keep doing this to specify all these different.
All these different flags.
Now what's actually going on, though, is that these flags are actually binary bits that we are setting
to one or zero.
Well, in this case, we're setting them to one.
OK?
Each of these values here is a binary bit of a binary number.
And when we specify them here, we're setting that particular bit on a binary number to one.
So what I mean is, for example, this that, well, actually here we can act.
We can actually go, look and see what this value is.
So if I just control, click on it.
This is and look at that.
Actually, it's specified in hexadecimal.
So this is a hexadecimal two.
This is a hexadecimal one.
Now look at look at how these values are being set.
Unix lines, this is a constant Unix lines is set to one case.
Insensitive as to comments is for multi-line is ET.
Do you notice a pattern here?
Now these are hex hexadecimal, though.
However, from one to not R from zero to nine, those are going to be the same as they would be in decimal.
OK.
It's not until we get up here to hexadecimal one zero that we actually are doing something different
from decimal now.
So this would not actually be a 10.
This would actually be 16.
OK.
So look at that one two four eight 16.
You get it.
Thirty two, et cetera.
Why are these being numbered in this way?
Well, the reason is because each of these represents one bit in a binary number.
So if we go look at our little binary chart here, I'll zoom in a bit.
One, two, four, eight, 16, 32, 64, 128.
So each of those constants represents one bit in awe, one of the places in a binary number.
So if we were to specify that we wanted this constant here Unix lines, which has a value of one, what
that would in effect do is it would set here.
Well, I'll convey it down here.
That would set a one right there.
And then if we were to turn on this case insensitive, which has a value of two, that would set a binary
bet right here in the two's column.
And if we wanted to turn on comments which has a binary value or a hex value, rather a four that would
set a one.
Right here and so on and so forth.
So we'd be turning on and off various settings of how the regular expression engine should behave.
You're really just flipping toggles on and off each of these places is would be thought of as a toggle
switch.
If there's a zero, it's off.
If there's a one, then you're toggling it on.
OK.
And so if you were to use a bite to represent all of those possible capabilities being turned on or
off, then you could have up to eight possible things that you could turn on or off.
If we go back over here, I want to show you what?
What's up with this little symbol here?
So this this little or this is this is and this is a symbol that represents what is called an or function.
OK.
And again, don't worry, I don't want to get too deep into this, but it's actually pretty simple.
So all we're really saying is this symbol is enabling Java to combine all of these different bits into
one number one binary number, and it doesn't matter what order they come in because each of these is
a value in its own column of a bite.
OK.
So if we wanted to have a value of one one one, whatever that turns on the way we could do that in
Java is just like this.
You could have whatever the value is for the one's place, which now now I'm ignoring what these values
really are because I don't remember what they were.
But let's say that this was the ones place that's two, four and eight.
OK.
So if you wanted to turn all of those on, all you have to do is specify that here's a number that has
a one.
And then you would use this symbol to add in a SIM, a two and a four and an eight.
And you would end up with ones in all of these locations.
Let me show you a little bit better, maybe what that actually might look like.
So if we go back over here to the numbers, stuff thing here.
And actually, I can show you this in binary.
So I'll start with the number one here.
And we will print this out.
Another event.
OK, so if we just run this, that should print out the number one.
Yeah, there we go.
So we got a one here.
Now if we wanted the number three to start over here, so currently we've got a one.
Now, if we wanted the number three, that would be in binary, a one here, plus a one here in the
twos place, right?
So that would be a three.
Now we could put the number three in here in a couple of ways.
We could obviously we could just set it to three like that.
And when we run this, that would give us a three.
Or we could do this in binary with one one.
That would be a three.
In fact, let's go ahead and run that and prove it.
There we go.
So there's a three, right?
But another way we could do this.
I'm going to I'm going to put a binary one here, and then I'm going to order this with that pipe symbol
there.
I'm going to or this with another binary number of a two, which is one zero.
OK.
So I've got a zero one.
And you can almost think of this as a plus plus one zero.
And so if I run this in, don't worry, I'm going to show this visually in a couple more ways in just
a moment here.
But if I run this, I should still get a three look at that.
I still get a three.
The reason I'm getting this, this is kind of like you can almost think of this sort of like a binary
addition.
Sort of kind of.
It's not quite adicional, but it's something kind of like that.
Let me show you what this looks like over here.
So what I just did is I'm going to clear that out.
In fact, I'm going to put a zero here.
I just.
First, we had a binary one.
And then I ordered that with a binary, too.
And what the order function does is it says I want a value at the end of this function, which is the
composite of the two inputs.
So I input it a one and then I input it a two.
And the way that it does this is it looks at this one and this zero here, and it says if either of
these is a one, then let the final answer be one.
And same thing here.
If either of these is a one, then let the final answer be a one.
And then this final thing here, two ones, that's a three.
Now with or if you had a zero and a zero.
The result would be zero.
OK.
So all it's doing is just saying for any two inputs, both inputs are zero than the output is going
to be a zero.
If either of the inputs is a one, then the output is going to be one.
And if both are a one, then the output will also be a one.
OK, so that's how an order works.
OK.
So that's what we're doing here.
We're we're saying, I want you to order a one and a two together.
Now, interestingly, we could also do this in decimal.
We could just do this one or two.
Just like that.
I know it looks super weird, right?
And when we run, this is still going to give us a three because fundamentally you're still just manipulating
bits and we could even do more.
We could or another number here.
So let's see.
We've got two.
Yeah, if we order a binary for.
Which would look like this.
I'll put the leading zeros in.
So we're just dealing with these three binary numbers right here.
So we're offering all of these together.
So now we should get what do you know, what the result of this would be if we were to or these three
numbers, these three binary numbers together, we should get a seven because starting from the highest
bit here, zero AUD with a zero or with a one will still be a one.
You're going to get a one here because of that one.
And you're going to get a one here because of this one.
And the result of that is four plus two, which is six plus one, which is seven.
OK.
So if we were to order a one, a two and a four like so.
We should get a seven, which looks like addition when you're looking at it in decimal, right, four
plus two or six plus one is is seven.
So obviously we're going to get a seven here.
There we go.
Now let's translate this into binary.
All right.
So if we do this in binary, we'll do a a one or two with a two chord with a four and run that.
And there we go.
We still have a seven there.
And you could do this in hexadecimal as well, but I'll leave that as an exercise for you.
So going back to the regular expression thing here.
Yeah, so all we're doing is adding up smaller bits of a binary number to make up one total number and
then the code that was written to determine how the compile method should work is going to look at these
and it can actually pass these out and determine what to turn on and off.
So let me show really briefly how this compile method is possibly learning what to turn on or off.
Also, just so you have a little bit of a picture of that as well.
So if we go back over here to numbers stuff, so this another end now has three bits turned on, if
you will, one, two and four.
OK, now if we wanted to know programmatically if the bit in the fourth place is enabled, one way we
could do that is with binary math.
Now, the way to determine which of these bits is turned on is by using another binary operation, which
is called And let me show you what that would look like.
So let's say we have one, two and four all turned on and stored in a variable, but our code is looking
at that variable and wants to determine programmatically which of these bits has turned on.
The code can basically test whether any of these bits are on or off by using another binary operation
called.
And so we've seen what an order looks like.
Now let's look at look at what an end does.
I'm going to clear these out and we'll start with something simple here.
If we have a one and a zero and we want to ask what happens with an end operation between one and zero?
Well, the way that an and works is all of the inputs have to be on or set to one for an output to be
one.
So if you have a one and a zero, the output will be zero because they're not both on.
They both have to be on or set to one for the output to be one.
OK, so one in zero yields zero.
Zero and zero also yields a zero.
Only a one and a one can yield a one.
And conversely, zero and one, I'll just show that zero and one will also be a zero.
So with that, armed with that knowledge, what we can do is, let's say we have a variable with the
number seven or a binary one one one, and we want to determine whether or not the 4S place here is
on or not.
Well, what we can do is we can apply what's called a bit mask, where we can start off with a known
number of just for what's in binary would be a one zero zero.
OK.
And then when we and these two numbers together?
If this number has the four place set to one or on and we end it with a four, then we will get a four
out.
Just like that.
And that's how you would know whether or not this was on or not.
And the same goes for the twos and the ones place.
So you could and.
I'll set that to zero, and I'll set this to one.
So if we ended these two numbers together, that would tell us if two was on or not because we'd get
a two back out.
Conversely, if two was not on.
And we ended this number with a two like, so you'd get a zero out, and that would tell you that this
bit is not on.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So here we've got a seven, right?
We've got one one one.
And we want to know if the fourth place is, which is here is on.
So what we could do is we could take this variable another event and we could and it now the way that
you do it and you don't use a pipe, instead, you use the ampersand symbol.
We could end that with the number four and I can enter this number four in any number of ways now,
right?
I could do decimal as I have here, or I could do binary one zero zero or I could do hexadecimal, which
would just be four, right?
So I could enter that in any number of ways.
And so when I run this, I should get the number four out because I do have the fourth bit or the four
place bit enabled.
There it is.
There's the floor.
Now if I set this to zero.
And I run this again, I should now get a zero.
There it is zero.
And so that's how I can determine programmatically which bits are on or off using something called a
mask.
One place where you will see that masks used is with internet addresses or IP addresses.
I mean, if you've ever seen an address that looks like this for on the internet 192.168.1.1, these
are actually bytes.
OK?
Each of these is is a byte in networking.
These would be called octet, but an octet is a byte, meaning a grouping of eight.
Right?
It really means a grouping of eight bits.
OK.
So these are octet.
These could be represented in pure binary.
I'm going to make a really simple IP address.
In fact, here I'll just say IP address.
OK.
Just so you know what we're talking about here.
I'm going to make a simpler IP address because I don't feel like trying to convert these into something
that in my head or quickly.
So let's say we had an IP address of 5.5 Dot five Dot three.
OK.
So that could be represented as zero b one zero one and then zero b one zero one and then zero B one
zero one and then zero b zero one one.
OK.
So that is an IP address.
Now, if any of you have ever had to configure your router at home or something like that, if you got
a little fancy with it, you may have noticed that sometimes routers will have a setting called netmask
or or network mask or something along those words.
The word mask will.
It will usually be in it.
That mask there is the same thing that I just did down here.
It specifies something.
So in this case, what it specifies is which actually here let me let me actually make these a little
more normalized with four bits each.
Here we go.
OK.
And in fact, I will even write these out a little more like this zero one zero one zero one zero one
zero one zero one zero zero one one.
OK.
So in internet address is part of an IP address or an internet protocol address can be thought of as
a city and a street address.
OK.
I'm just giving you kind of an analogy here.
All right.
So for any given IP address, part of that address might represent the city.
And I don't mean geographically, I just mean like to two levels of grouping.
OK.
One level of grouping literally is is considered the network address.
And then the other part of that address, well, technically it's called the host, the host, the address.
OK.
But all both of those the network address and the host address will be encapsulated all inside of the
total IP address.
However, which parts are the network and which parts are the host will not be clear.
Just by looking at one IP address, you need something else to tell you.
Where does the network address stop and the host address begin?
And that thing that is typically used to tell us that is called a network mask.
And the way the network mask works is, I'll just show you here it will be.
Something like this.
So in this case, what we're saying is any bits that correspond to where these ones are?
That is the network mask.
So that would be these to these two nibbles here.
Right?
These sets of bits and then any place where the zeros are.
That's the host address.
OK?
Now this could be any kind of configuration.
Or you could have.
You could have.
Like this.
So the network portion of this address could be all of these bits here and then the rest.
The rest of it could be the host address, so that's pretty arbitrary.
OK.
How that set up, but what ends up happening is that the router or your computer or whatever takes these
two binary numbers and it applies an end operation to them to pass through or filter out whichever parts
shouldn't go.
OK.
All right.
So I'm going to remind you, don't worry if don't worry, if a lot of this isn't super meaningful to
you, there are two two things that I want you to keep in mind.
First off, sometimes it's helpful just to hear the very high level concepts of how things are working.
Even if you're not fully grasping this, even whatever small percentage you might be grasping your kind
of store that in the back of your mind.
And someday, if and when you encounter a problem where you might need this knowledge, you may recall.
You know, that sounds vaguely familiar to me, and you might come back and watch this video and it
might have a little more meaning for you at that time.
So don't don't worry about it.
Sometimes you have to hear these things multiple times.
My purpose here really isn't to make you 100 percent totally knowledgeable about all of these numbers,
systems and and masks and and and binary operations and things like that.
My purpose is really just to kind of introduce you to a little bit more of what's going on, because
the deeper you get into programming, the more often from time to time you will see little hints and
glimpses of these things, like what we saw in this regex configuration here.
This would not be obvious to anyone who had not really gone through and studied how binary masks work,
what's going on here and why we're using this symbol here.
So these symbols, this or here comes from binary.
OK.
And so I just wanted you to have a little deeper understanding of why this was working the way that
it is and how it all comes back to these number systems in one way or another.
All right.
That's going to wrap up this lesson and I'll see you in the next one.